Add CONTRIBUTING.md (#2)
brainglobe/.github: CONTRIBUTING.md

computational experience. In particular:

* Installation, although simple via PyPI, assumes a lot (functional Python installation, CUDA installation etc.)
* Although most software can be run through a single command, there are a lot of steps, and so a lot to understand.
* There are a lot of parameters that can be changed, and their impact on the final results is not always obvious.
* It is not immediately obvious how to use the results of the pipeline to answer the particular biological question.

For these reasons (and others) it is important that every part of all software is documented as well as possible, 
and all new features must be fully documented.

### Editing the documentation

The documentation is built with [gitbook](https://docs.brainglobe.info/) and mirrored in a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/brainglobe/bg-gitbook).

**There are two ways to edit the documentation:**

* **On GitHub:** Click on the link on the right hand side of the page you want to edit \(`Edit on GitHub`\), 
  make changes online and submit them as a pull request.
* **Locally:** Fork the repository, clone locally, then submit your changes as a pull request.

> N.B. The brainrender documentation is hosted in the same way, but seperately. The documentation can be found 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
N.B. The `brainrender` documentation is hosted in the same way, but separately. The documentation can be found 
```

> [here](https://docs.brainrender.info/) and the GitHub repository is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[here](https://docs.brainrender.info/), and the GitHub repository is 
```

[here](https://github.com/brainglobe/brainrender-docs).

## To contribute code
### Creating a development environment

> It is recommended to use conda to install a development environment for
> BrainGlobe projects. Once you have conda installed the following commands
> will create and activate a conda environment with the requirements needed
> for a development environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use `conda` to install a development environment for
BrainGlobe projects. Once you have `conda` installed, the following commands
will create and activate a `conda` environment with the requirements needed
for a development environment:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sh
```

conda create -n brainglobe-dev -c conda-forge python=3.9 napari
conda activate brainglobe-dev
```

This installs packages that often can't be installed via. pip, including
`pyqt`. The specific version of Python is chosen to allow `tensorflow` to be
installed on macOS arm64 machines.

To install a specific BrainGlobe project for  development, clone the
GitHub repository, and then run

```
pip install -e '.[dev]'
```

from inside the repository. This will install the package, it's dependencies,
and it's development dependencies.

### Pull requests

In all cases, please submit code to the main repository via a pull request. The developers recommend, and adhere, 
to the following conventions:
- please submit _draft_ pull requests as early as possible (you can still push to the branch once submitted) to

>   allow discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  allow for discussion.
```

> - one approval of a PR (by a repo owner) is enough for it to be merged

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- One approval of a PR (by a repo owner) is enough for it to be merged.
```

> - unless someone approves the PR with optional comments, the PR is immediately merged by the approving reviewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unless someone approves the PR with optional comments, the PR is immediately merged by the approving reviewer.
```

* [`brainreg`](https://github.com/brainglobe/brainreg)
* [`cellfinder`](https://github.com/brainglobe/cellfinder)
* [`cellfinder-core`](https://github.com/brainglobe/cellfinder-core)
* [`brainreg-napari`](https://github.com/brainglobe/brainreg-napari)
* [`cellfinder-napari`](https://github.com/brainglobe/cellfinder-napari)
* [`brainglobe-napari-io`](https://github.com/brainglobe/brainglobe-napari-io)

The conventions for these repositories is as follows:

### Formatting

We use [Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/), [Flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/), 
[isort](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/) and [mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to ensure a consistent 
code style. You may need to run `pre-commit install` prior to working on the code to ensure that these tests are run 
on each commit if you haven't installed as `[dev]`.

To check your code before committing, please run:

- for staged files
```python
pre-commit run
```

- for all files in the repository
```python
pre-commit run -a
```

### Testing

We use [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) for testing. Please try to ensure that all functions 

> are tested in `tests/tests/test_unit` and all workflows/command-line tools are tested in `tests/tests/test_integration`.

Author: There's a difference between the CLI tools and the napari plugins. This should probably be standardised, but I'll remove the reference in the docs for now.

> Some tests may take a long time \(e.g. those requiring tensorflow if you don't have a GPU\). These tests should be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some tests may take a long time, e.g. those requiring `TensorFlow` if you don't have a GPU. These tests should be 
```

marked with `@pytest.mark.slow`, e.g.:

```python
import pytest
@pytest.mark.slow

> def test_something_slow():

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def test_something_slow() -> None:
```

    slow_result = run_slow_processes()

>     assert slow_result == expected_slow_thing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assert slow_result == expected_slow_thing, "some useful error message"
```

```

During development, these "slow" tests can be skipped by running `pytest -m "not slow"`.

### GitHub actions

All commits & pull requests will be build by GitHub actions 
([e.g. cellfinder](https://github.com/brainglobe/cellfinder/actions)). To ensure there are no issues, please check 

> that it builds: `pip install .` and run all of the tests: `pytest` before committing changes.

Reviewer: Not `pip install -e .[dev]`?

### Versioning

Versioning is taken care of using [bump2version](https://github.com/c4urself/bump2version). 

> By using the `bump2version` command, new versions are incremented, a git tag is made, and when pushed to the remote 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the `bump2version` command, new versions are incremented, a `git` tag is made, and when pushed to the remote 
```

repository, that version will be deployed to PyPI. Usage is as follows:

> * Bump to new patch version \(e.g. `1.0.0` to `1.0.1-rc0`\): `bump2version patch`

Reviewer: I might be missing something, but why the `\(` and not just `(`. Is it for the docs?

Author: Yep, this is from gitbook. Can be removed though.

* Bump to new minor version \(e.g. `1.0.0` to `1.1.0-rc0`\): `bump2version minor`
* Bump to new major version \(e.g. `1.0.0` to `2.0.0-rc0`\): `bump2version major`
* Bump to new release candidate version \(e.g. `1.0.0-rc0` to `1.0.0-rc1`\): `bump2version rc`
* To create a new release version \(e.g. `1.0.0-rc0` to `1.0.0`\): `bump2version release`

### Dependency support
Packages have to choose which versions of dependencies they officially support,
with minimum supported versions of each dependency used in continuous
integration testing. BrainGlobe projects should follow
[NEP 29 — Recommend Python and NumPy version support as a community policy
standard](https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html) to
determine the **minimum** set of supported package versions:

- The last 42 months of Python releases
- The last 24 months of NumPy releases

In addition to this the last 24 months of other dependencies should also be
supported.
---

## Cellfinder-specific conventions 
### Dependencies

> Cellfinder includes a lot of functionality brought in from other packages. It is important that 
> each repository focusses on a single task. Changes should be added to the relevant repository:

Reviewer: Also typo in `focusses`
```suggestion
Cellfinder includes a lot of functionality brought in from other packages. Each repository must focus on a single task. Changes should be added to the relevant repository:
```

* **Cell detection in whole-brain microscopy images**: [cellfinder](https://github.com/BrainGlobe/cellfinder)
* **Cell detection algorithm**: [cellfinder-core](https://github.com/BrainGlobe/cellfinder-core)
* **Regstration:** [brainreg](https://github.com/brainglobe/brainreg)
* **Image data IO:** [imio](https://github.com/brainglobe/imio)
* **General imaging processing \(and other\) tools:**  [imlib](https://github.com/adamltyson/imlib)

### File paths

> All file paths should be defined in `cellfinder.tools.prep.Paths`. Any intermediate file paths, \(i.e. those which are not of interest to the typical end user\) should be prefixed with `tmp__`. These should then be cleaned up as soon as possible after generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All file paths should be defined in `cellfinder.tools.prep.Paths`. Any intermediate file paths, \(i.e. those which are not of interest to the typical end-user\) should be prefixed with `tmp__`. These should then be cleaned up as soon as possible after generation.
```

### Releasing `cellfinder-core`

1. Make sure you have [`bump2version`](https://github.com/c4urself/bump2version/#installation) installed.
2. Check out the latest `main` branch from upstream.
3. Run `bump2version <type>`, where `<type>` is replaced by one of {major, minor, patch}. This will create a new pre-release commit and tag with "rc" in
the filename.
4. Push the result to the cellfinder-core repository using `git push upstream --follow-tags`.

> 5. Check that all the tests pass, the package builds correctly, and that all built packages are uploaded to PyPi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Check that all the tests pass, the package builds correctly, and that all built packages are uploaded to PyPI.
```

> 6. Check that there are no issues with the new version of `cellfinder-core` and `cellfinder` by going to https://github.com/brainglobe/cellfinder/actions/workflows/test_and_deploy.yml, clicking on the "Run workflow" button the left, typing "true" into the prompt, and clicking "Run workflow". This will run the `cellfinder` tests with the development version of `cellfinder-core`. Make sure these tests pass.

Reviewer: I think hyperlinks without something indicating that they are as such is discouraged
```suggestion
6. Check that there are no issues with the new version of `cellfinder-core` and `cellfinder` by going to <https://github.com/brainglobe/cellfinder/actions/workflows/test_and_deploy.yml/>, clicking on the "Run workflow" button on the left, typing "true" into the prompt, and clicking "Run workflow". This will run the `cellfinder` tests with the development version of `cellfinder-core`. Make sure that these tests pass.
```

7. If something goes wrong, fix the issues, run `bump2version rc` to create a new release candidate. Push to upstream again, and go back to step 5.
8. Run `bump2version <type>` to tag the final release version, and push to upstream.

> 9. Check that all the tests pass, the package builds correctly, and that all built packages are uploaded to PyPi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Check that all the tests pass, the package builds correctly, and that all built packages are uploaded to PyPI.
```
